Clarify DAE Model Structure (#40)
modelica/fmi-ls-dae: docs/4___layeredManifest.adoc

|<<ModelStructure>>
|Defines the structure of the DAE formulation for the model.

> Especially, the ordered lists of <<output,`outputs`>>, continuous-time <<state,states>>, and the initial unknowns (the unknowns during <<InitializationMode>>) are *re*-defined and overwrite the corresponding `<ModelStructure>` present in the `modelDescription.xml`, with the addition of the  <<residuals, `residuals`>> element.

Reviewer: Are `outputs` still overwritten by this version of the layered standard? Looks like it is removed.

|`index`
|[[index-formulation]]
Optional attribute indicating the DAE index of the original constraint, i.e., how many times this particular equation must be differentiated in order to solve for a particular derivative.

|`dependencies`
|Optional attribute defining the algebraic dependencies as a list of value references of the knowns latexmath:[{\mathbf{v}_{\mathit{known}}}] that this formulation directly depends on.

Knowns latexmath:[{\mathbf{v}_{\mathit{known}}}] in <<ContinuousTimeMode>> (ME) for `<<Formulation>>` elements are: +

* inputs (variables with <<causality>> = <<input>>),

* continuous states,

* continuous state derivatives,

* parameters (variables with <<causality>> = <<parameter>>),

* algebraic variables (variables listed in the `<<AlgebraicVariables>>` element),

* <<independent>> variable (usually time; <<causality>> = <<independent>>).

If `dependencies` is not present, it must be assumed that the formulation depends on all knowns.
If `dependencies` is present as an empty list, the formulation depends on none of the knowns.
Otherwise the formulation depends on the knowns defined by the given value references.

|`dependenciesKind`

> |See the description of <<dependenciesKind>> in <<table-output-der-initialUnknown-details>> of the core FMI standard. TODO: Extend to help importer?

Reviewer: I think we should use URLs to link to FMI 3 specification. It's difficult to see which link is simply broken because of a typo and which is referencing the FMI 3 spec.

```suggestion
|See the description of https://fmi-standard.org/docs/3.0.2/#dependenciesKind[`dependenciesKind`] in the core FMI standard.
TODO: Extend to help importer?
```

Reviewer: I already changed this in 7936ddba465160825a45c057aee73f8a1082274a. @elmir-nahodovic what is your opinion on this?

Author: I completely agree, I just got carried away with copy-pasting before. Your change looks very good!

===== Hello World DAE - Semi-Explicit DAE

The semi-explicit representation

[latexmath]
++++
\begin{split}
\dot{x} & = f(x, y, t) \\
      0 & = g(x, y, t)
\end{split}
++++

is given by

[latexmath]
++++
\begin{split}
f: \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}^2 \times \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}, \;
&(x,y,t) \mapsto
\begin{pmatrix}
y_1
\end{pmatrix}
 \\
g: \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}^2 \times \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}, \;
&(x,y,t) \mapsto
\begin{pmatrix}
y_1 + 2 y_2 - x   \\
y_1 - 3 y_2 - 2 x
\end{pmatrix}
\end{split}
++++

Assume the FMU has the following variables:

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|====
|Variable | valueReference
|latexmath:[t] | 1
|latexmath:[x] | 2
|latexmath:[y_1] | 3
|latexmath:[y_2] | 4
|latexmath:[\dot{x}] | 5
|latexmath:[g_1] | 6
|latexmath:[g_2] | 7
|====

This case contains the same algebraic variables. However this time the the derivative of `x` is given in explicit form in the `ModelStructure`:

```xml
<AlgebraicVariables>
  <AlgebraicVariable valueReference="3"/> <!-- y1 -->
  <AlgebraicVariable valueReference="4"/> <!-- y2 -->
</AlgebraicVariables>

<ModelStructure>
  <ContinuousStateDerivative <!-- dot(x) = y1 -->
    valueReference="5"
    dependencies="3"

>     dependenciesKind="fixed"/>

Reviewer: XML comments can only appear between tags, not inside.
Add it before or after `<ContinuousStateDerivative>`
```suggestion
  <ContinuousStateDerivative
    valueReference="5"
    dependencies="3"
    dependenciesKind="fixed"/> <!-- dot(x) = y1 -->
```
